In this tutorial we will be talking about the explicit type conversion in Ezekiel.
Here I've got the order breakdown table and I've selected all of the rows from it and here they're are
displayed at the bottom.
Now let's have a look at something that we've already done before when we want to for instance order
by a roll which is actually a number.
If we just type in order by let's say let's not say discount let's say sales then if we run this you
will see that it's actually not ordered correctly because sales has been treated as a text rather than
a number.
Now if we want to order by sales as a number then we have to convert this text into a number and ideally
of course sales would be stored as a number ready you know table but in this case it's it's not like
that so we have to convert there.
That means we have to perform an explicit conversion in this case.
And there are two types two ways you can do an explicit conversion.
One is called cost and the function costs and one that's called the function convert will start over
function cost because it's a bit easier.
So we've already seen this function before cost.
Then your column name.
And then you type in as.
And what would you want to cost it as I'd like to cast it as a float because float is our type that
has decimal points.
So if I execute this now you will see that.
Now my table has been ordered correctly by the
number rather than the text.
So it's going from the lowest to the highest which is great.
Now if you want to look at the other function then we need to change this row.
So I'm just going to commented it out and I will add the other row that we're going to be looking at
.
So ORDER BY and is then of course we're going to use convert and convert works a bit differently.
Convert takes three parameters for the first two are the important ones the third one is only four dates
.
So here we want to convert the target type for us is going to be float.
So here you first specify the target type and then you put a comma and then you type in the expression
.
So in this case will be sales.
And was going to add the brackets here as well.
So if I run this now same result it's ordered correctly but we just use a different approach.
And so that's how you can convert data in a skew all you can either use the convert or the cost function
.
I find that the cost is a bit faster because it's a shorter word to type.
And it kind of makes sense when you read it.
So costs sales as a float whereas convert's you have to remember that converts into a float the very
the column sales.
So it's a bit more difficult use.
You should use cost.
I would advise that use cost when you're not working with dates.
Use convert when you're working with dates because you'll need a third variable and we'll talk about
why and how you can use a third variable in the next section of the course.
When we come across a convert one more time.
So that's how you can convert variables in Eskew I'll give it a go see see how you can convert for instance
the quantity into an integer discount into an other float.
But of course try the different methods try converts try cost and see which one you like more